Fusion+Orc Exposures (#9123)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/platform-integrations/orchestrate-exposures.md

<IntroText>

> Use [dbt platform job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) to proactively refresh downstream exposures and the underlying data sources (extracts) that power your Tableau Workbooks.

Author: ```suggestion
Use [<Constant name="dbt_platform" /> job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) to proactively refresh downstream exposures and the underlying data sources (extracts) that power your Tableau Workbooks.
```

</IntroText>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="2.0">

:::warning <Constant name="fusion" /> not supported for this beta

> Orchestrating downstream exposures <em>is not available</em> when your deployments use [Latest&nbsp;<Constant name="fusion" />](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks), the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> preview. Supported jobs must use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with <Constant name="core" />.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchestrating downstream exposures _isn't_ available when your deployments use [Latest <Constant name="fusion" />](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks). Supported jobs must use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with the <Constant name="core" /> engine.
```

> On this track, the environment variables `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES` and `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES_BUILD_AFTER` have _no effect_: extracts are _not_ refreshed through this workflow and downstream exposure entries _don't_ appear in job logs.

Author: ```suggestion
On the [Latest <Constant name="fusion" />](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) release track (the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> preview), orchestrating downstream exposures isn’t supported yet. Setting `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES` and `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES_BUILD_AFTER` won’t enable orchestration behavior (like Tableau extract refreshes) or the related job log entries.
```

> On this track, the environment variables `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES` and `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES_BUILD_AFTER` have <em>no effect</em>: extracts are <em>not</em> refreshed through this workflow and downstream exposure entries <em>don't</em> appear in job logs.

Author: ```suggestion
On this track, the environment variables `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES` and `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES_BUILD_AFTER` have _no effect_: extracts are _not_ refreshed through this workflow and downstream exposure entries _don't_ appear in job logs.
```

> On this track, the environment variables `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES` and `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES_BUILD_AFTER` have <em>no effect</em>: extracts are <em>not</em> refreshed through this workflow and downstream exposure entries <em>don't</em> appear in job logs.

Reviewer: what do we mean by on this track?

The private beta is for <Constant name="dbt" /> Enterprise accounts. Contact your account representative for access.

:::

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.99">

:::tip Available in private beta

> Orchestrating exposures is currently available in private beta to <Constant name="dbt" /> Enterprise accounts. Your deployment environments and scheduled jobs must use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with <Constant name="core" /> (not [Latest&nbsp;<Constant name="fusion" />](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks), the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> preview). To join the beta, contact your account representative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchestrating exposures is currently available in private beta to <Constant name="dbt" /> Enterprise accounts. Your deployment environments and scheduled jobs must use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with the <Constant name="core" /> engine (not [Latest <Constant name="fusion" /> engine](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks)). To join the beta, contact your account representative.
```

To orchestrate downstream exposures, you should meet the following:

- [Configured downstream exposures](/docs/platform-integrations/downstream-exposures-tableau) and ensured desired exposures are included in your lineage.

> - Verified your environment and jobs use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with <Constant name="core" />. [Latest&nbsp;<Constant name="fusion" />](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks), the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> preview, does <em>not</em> support orchestrating downstream exposures yet.

Reviewer: for consistency, do we want to keep it simple and use _ for emphasis and avoid the `<em> and &nbsp;`?

> - Verified your environment and jobs use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with <Constant name="core" />. [Latest&nbsp;<Constant name="fusion" />](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks), the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> preview, does <em>not</em> support orchestrating downstream exposures yet.

Author: ```suggestion
- Verified your environment and jobs use [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with <Constant name="core" />. [Latest <Constant name="fusion" /> engine](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks), the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> preview, does _not_ support orchestrating downstream exposures yet.
```

## Orchestrate downstream exposures

> To orchestrate downstream exposures and see refreshes happen automatically during scheduled jobs on [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with <Constant name="core" />:

Reviewer: sugg making it clear its the engine we're talking about here
```suggestion
To orchestrate downstream exposures and see refreshes happen automatically during scheduled jobs on [Latest](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) with the <Constant name="core" /> engine:
```

1. In the <Constant name="dbt" />, click **Deploy**, then **Environments**, and select the **Environment variables** tab.
2. Click **Add variable** and set the [environment level variable](/docs/build/environment-variables#setting-and-overriding-environment-variables) `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES` to `1` within the environment you want the refresh to happen.
3. Then set the `DBT_ACTIVE_EXPOSURES_BUILD_AFTER` to control the maximum refresh frequency (in minutes) you want between each exposure refresh.

> 4. Set the variable to `1440` minutes (24 hours) by default. This means that downstream exposures won’t refresh Tableau extracts more often than this set interval, even if the related models run more frequently.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Set the variable to **1440** minutes (24 hours) by default. This means that downstream exposures won’t refresh Tableau extracts more often than this set interval, even if the related models run more frequently.
```
